# Sous Recipe Costing Calculator Api
Welcome to Sous Recipe Costing Calculator! This is a one-page version of a recipe costing calculator. With this application, you can name a recipe, add ingredients, set values to be converted, calculate cost and save them to the database. This application is built using a minimal tech stack to maximize iteration speed.

## Getting Started
To get started with Sous Recipe Costing Calculator, please follow the instructions below:

1. Extract the project from zip file.
2. Navigate to the project directory using your command prompt or terminal.
3. Run the command bundle install to install all necessary dependencies.

## Tech Stack
The tech stack used to build Sous Recipe Costing Calculator is:

* Ruby on Rails - a web application framework written in the Ruby programming language
* PostgreSQL - an open-source relational database management system


## Dependencies
The following dependencies are required to run Sous Recipe Costing Calculator:

* Ruby 3.1.2
* Rails 7.0.4
* PostgreSQL 14.4

## Installation Guide
>#### Install [RVM](https://rvm.io/rvm/install)
Install the right ruby version (currently 3.1.2):
```shell
  rvm install "ruby-3.1.2"
```

>#### Check your Ruby version
```shell
  ruby -v
```

The ouput should start with something like `ruby 3.1.2`

>#### Install Database (PostgreSQL) 14.4
```shell
  brew install postgresql
  brew services start postgresql
```

### Run this command to install all gems and dependencies

```azure
bundle install or bundle
```
## Database Setup:
```sh
rails db:create
rails db:migrate
rails db:seed
```

## Linting
[Rubocop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop) linter is configured for this project. In order to trigger linting via CLI, run in root project's folder:
```
rubocop
```
However if you use Rails scaffolding features, autogenerated code may fail under some of the Rubocop's configured rules. Luckily *Rubocop* supports auto-correction, so you can fix auto-generated code running:
```
rubocop -A
```

## Running up the Server
```sh
bundle exec rails s
```

Once the server is running, you can access the application by navigating to http://localhost:3000 in your web browser.

## Functionality
With Sous Recipe Costing Calculator, you can perform the following actions:

1. Name a recipe
2. Add ingredients
3. Remove ingredients
4. Set values to be converted
5. Calculate cost and save them to the database

To calculate the cost of a recipe, simply fill out the necessary information in the form provided and click on the "Calculate" button. The application will then save the recipe, ingredients, and conversions into the database. When the page is refreshed, the last values for each of the entities saved will be retrieved from the database and loaded into the UI.

## Feedback
If you have any feedback or suggestions for improving Sous Recipe Costing Calculator, please feel free to reach out to me. I would love to hear from you!

